this is Kelly Anton way she's Trump's
campaign manager turned senior White
House adviser in a big part of her job
for the past eight months has been
defending Trump in TV interviews there
is no dead she will not go into that may
sound like the hardest job in the world
but Conway is ridiculously good at
dodging tough questions and it drives
her interviewers crazy Kelly yeah that's
not what I asked you're trying to
distract from my question you're
answering the question I'm not asking
the question is the question is so how
does she do it
what makes Kellyanne Conway such a
nightmare to interview last December
ABC's George Stephanopoulos asked Conway
a very simple question
why does Trump falsely claim that voter
fraud costs him the popular vote that
claim is groundless isn't it
irresponsible for president elect to
make false statements like that
watch how Conway answers I think it's
groundless for if we talk about fake
news that fake news is that somehow the
popular vote is more important than the
electoral college vote now catch that
instead of answering Conway goes in a
totally different direction
Stephanopoulos tries again no one is
questioning the victory I said is it
appropriate is it responsible for a
president elect to make false statements
like that and again Conway dodges well
first many people are questioning the
victory you've got people spending
millions of dollars wasting money and
time in the Clinton his sign camp it's
so frustrating it's like watching
someone try to staple jello to a wall I
needed to talk to an expert someone who
had truly mastered at the dark arts of
verbal combat hey Carlos this is Seth
Gannon and at first glance he might seem
like a sweet unassuming guy but he's
actually one of the most talented
debaters in the country you are true to
form far too kind he won the national
debate tournament the Superbowl of
competitive college debate as a junior
in 2008 and he made it to the finals
again the next year here he is
celebrating his big win and Here I am
still being a virgin in college I was a
late bloomer now Seth is a debate and
public speaking coach a professional
smooth talker
have you watched a lot of Kellyanne
Conway interviews as much as I can stand
fair what is her secret with any
question she is looking for an opening
to take it somewhere else especially if
she could make the administration as the
victim she's listening for concepts that
she can latch on to and go on often this
is Conway's bread-and-butter she hears a
key word or concept she can use for
pizza to sound like she's answering the
question and then introduces a total non
sequitur to trip up the host it's like
really bad improv watch what Conway does
when Chuck Todd backs her into a corner
about the size of Trump's inauguration
crowd look alternative facts are not
facts they're falsehoods Chuck do you
think it's a fact or not that millions
of people have lost their their players
or health insurance and their doctors
under President Obama do you think it's
a fact that everything we heard Tom made
she's not actually answering Todd's
question at all but because she repeats
his word it kind of sounds like she is
here's another one you don't know what
his finances are because you haven't
seen his tax returns either so you don't
know who you know the government of
Qatar hasn't given him a million dollars
here's what I do know I know we've got
the Democrats on the run running around
a blue state like did she wink she's
seriously wink Conway that says Conway
is essentially preying on an
interviewers natural impulse to be
polite for the interviewer to insist
again and again on the original question
and to ignore 90% of what she said in
the meantime is Ruth stop this
catch-and-release thought the sanctuary
cities well if I can just interrupt
because and I hate to do that but I
would have a number of things I want to
ask you about she trusts that they're
going to move on to their next topic
rather then ask the same question over
and over when Conway does have her
tangents cut short she has another trick
passing the buck
Conway doesn't actually make policy and
Trump's white house so she often gets
the site set tough questions by saying I
don't know I have not been in those
briefings no I
you've earned half a skin and when that
fails when tongue weight is really up
against the wall she has one last trick
make something up she doesn't seem to
let fats or even other administration
statements stand in her way she has this
postmodern quality where words and
statements that you may have heard and
knew exactly what they meant well
Kellyanne Conway has a very different
interpretation of those same words she
often reinvents Trump's positions into
more defensible versions of themselves
after Trump spent weeks falsely claiming
in plain language that there was
widespread voter fraud Conway went on TV
and said he was actually talking about
voter registration fraud something very
different I will tell you that what the
president is talking about is
registration and voter rolls these
registration rolls are a hot mess but
that is not voter fraud no no but this
is what the president was talking about
he's talking about registration and
rolls no that's not what he's talking
about
that's what Conway wishes he was talking
about Jesus and this gets to the
fundamental problem with trying to
interview Kellyanne Conway the points of
interviewing administration officials is
to get clarity about what the president
is doing or at least beliefs but Conway
interviews do neither what she has
decided not to give meaningful answers
to questions there is no way to have a
successful interview by traditional
measures there are only gradations of
failure only gradations of the non
answers you're receiving she is so good
at dodging questions and tripping a post
that you're likely to end up more
confused and
lesson formed at the end of one of her
interviews than you wore at the
beginning Conway is a master of
deflection but inviting her to wreak
havoc on national TV does it actually
help audiences better understand what's
going on in their government so the next
time you find yourself yelling at your
TV during a Kellyanne Conway interview
just remember she's doing her job
it's them you shows they keep booking
her that are letting you down
I actually think anybody could do the
Conway misdirection thing if they really
put their mind to it yeah that's up
question
[Music]